Update command.rst to include newly proposed CLI options (#317)
canonical/charmed-openstack-upgrader: docs/explanation/upgrade-groups.rst

==============
Upgrade Groups
==============

In the process of planning or executing an upgrade for an OpenStack cloud, users have the

> capability to target a specific group of components based on their operational roles. 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
capability to target a specific group of applications based on their services responsibilities . 
```

Control Plane
-------------

The **control-plane** includes services tasked with making decisions related to data management,
routing, and processing. Services considered as **control-plane** in OpenStack and in scope
of COU are:

- rabbitmq-server
- ceph-mon
- keystone
- aodh
- barbican
- ceilometer
- ceph-fs
- ceph-radosgw
- cinder
- designate
- designate-bind
- glance
- gnocchi
- heat
- manila
- manila-ganesha
- neutron-api
- neutron-gateway
- ovn-dedicated-chassis
- ovn-central
- placement
- nova-cloud-controller
- openstack-dashboard
- octavia

> - subordinate services that are not collocated with **data-plane** nodes 

Reviewer: For consistency, we are using colocated with just one `L` in the code and spec 
```suggestion
- subordinate services that are not colocated with **data-plane** nodes 
```

Data Plane
----------

On the other hand, the **data-plane** is composed of services that handle the actual data
transfer. Services considered as **data-plane** in OpenStack and in scope of COU are:

- nova-compute
- ceph-osd

> - any **control-plane** services collocated on the same nodes with data-plane components

Reviewer: My suggestion is just to reflect the current implementation, but if this sentence is true we might have to reconsider. @aieri is there any chance of a hyper converged deployment that ceph-osd is with a `control-plane` app but not with nova-compute? Or this would be considered as a bad deployment?

E.g: ceph-osd and glance in a machine

```suggestion
- any **control-plane** services colocated on the same machine with nova-compute application
```

> 

Reviewer: missing to mention data-plane subordinates

**Note:** It's essential to complete the upgrade of the **control-plane** components before
proceeding to any **data-plane** components to ensure cloud functionality.

> 

Reviewer: Might worth also adding a note that because of this division of control and data plane, the upgrade sequence will differ from documentation for `openstack-dashboard` and `octavia` that will be upgraded first than `nova-compute`

Hypervisors
-----------

Within the data-plane are **hypervisors**. In COU they represents nodes hosting the hypervisor
service (**nova-compute**), which facilitate the distribution of compute and memory resources
among virtual machines (VMs), and other services collocated on the same nodes.

> **Note:** Since **hypervisors** comprise a subset of **data-plane** components, it is

Reviewer: Might worth also saying that won't generate upgrade plan for ceoh-osd and subordinates if the hypervisors command is used

==============
Upgrade Groups
==============

In the process of planning or executing an upgrade for an OpenStack cloud, users have the
capability to target a specific group of applications based on their services responsibilities.

**Note:** COU will upgrade **openstack-dashboard** and **octavia** at the end of the
**control-plane** upgrade (before upgrading **control-plane** subordinate applications
and **data-plane** services) due to the desired upgrade group splits. This is slightly
different from the `upstream upgrade documentation`_.

Control Plane
-------------

The **control-plane** includes services tasked with making decisions related to data management,
routing, and processing. Services considered as **control-plane** in OpenStack and in scope
of COU are (following their upgrade order):

- rabbitmq-server
- ceph-mon
- keystone
- aodh
- barbican
- ceilometer
- ceph-fs
- ceph-radosgw
- cinder
- designate
- designate-bind
- glance
- gnocchi
- heat
- manila
- manila-ganesha
- neutron-api
- neutron-gateway
- ovn-dedicated-chassis
- ovn-central
- placement
- nova-cloud-controller
- openstack-dashboard
- octavia

> - **control-plane** subordinate applications

Reviewer: before the subordinates there are principal charms not listed on the documentation. E.g: `mysql-innodb-cluster`

```suggestion
- **other principal applications** not listed in the upgrade order
- **control-plane** subordinate applications
```
